>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SUNDAY, MARCH 26:
LAWMAKERS ON BOTH SIDES OF THE
AISLE TAKE TO THE AIRWAVES TO
TALK HEALTH CARE AND RUSSIA.
VENEZUELA ASKS FOR ASSISTANCE AS
A LACK OF MEDICAL SUPPLIES HITS
CRISIS LEVELS.
AND IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
HOW IRELAND IS PREPARING FOR THE
FINANCIAL FALLOUT FROM BREXIT.
>> WHEN BRITAIN PULLS OUT OF THE
E.U., THAT COULD TRIGGER TARIFFS
ON ANGLO-IRISH TRADE.
AND WHEN TRADE BARRIERS GO UP,
SO DOES THE COST OF DOING
BUSINESS.
>> Sreenivasan: NEXT ON "PBS
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND."
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
AT LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING,
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
FURTHER POLITICAL FALLOUT IN
THE NATION'S CAPITAL TODAY,
INCLUDING A THINLY VEILED
WARNING FROM THE PRESIDENT'S
CHIEF OF STAFF AFTER HOUSE
REPUBLICANS SCRAPPED A VOTE ON
THEIR HIGHLY TOUTED BILL TO
REPLACE THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
ON FRIDAY.
TODAY, PRESIDENT TRUMP ATTACKED
THE HOUSE'S CONSERVATIVE
FREEDOM CAUCUS IN A TWEET:
WHITE HOUSE CHIEF OF STAFF
REINCE PRIEBUS STRONGLY HINTED
THAT THE PRESIDENT MAY BYPASS
THE 31-MEMBER CAUCUS AND INSTEAD
SEEK OUT BIPARTISAN DEALS WITH
DEMOCRATS ON TAX REFORM AND
OTHER LEGISLATION.
>> I THINK IT'S MORE OR LESS A
WARNING SHOT THAT WE'RE WILLING
TO TALK TO ANYONE, WE ALWAYS
HAVE BEEN AND I THINK MORESO NOW
THAN EVER, IT'S TIME FOR BOTH
PARTIES TO COME TOGETHER AND GET
TO REAL REFORMS IN THIS COUNTRY.
>> Sreenivasan: FREEDOM CAUCUS
LEADER MARK MEADOWS HAD THIS
RESPONSE:
>> I STILL BELIEVE THAT THERE IS
A GOOD CHANCE, IF MODERATES AND
CONSERVATIVES CAN COME TOGETHER,
THAT WE REPEAL AND REPLACE
OBAMACARE, BRING PREMIUMS DOWN,
COVER MORE PEOPLE.
>> Sreenivasan: SENATE MINORITY
LEADER CHUCK SCHUMER SAID TODAY
THAT REPUBLICANS WILL FIND NO
SUCCESS WITH HEALTH CARE AS LONG
AS REPEALING THE AFFORDABLE CARE
ACT IS ON THE TABLE.
>> THEY OUGHT TO GET RID OF
REPEAL, DROP IT, IT'S BEEN A
FLOP FOR THEM BECAUSE OF THE
SUBSTANCE OF REPEAL, AND WORK
WITH US TO IMPROVE IT.
>> Sreenivasan: REPUBLICANS ARE
ALSO DEALING WITH THE ONGOING
FEDERAL INVESTIGATION INTO
POSSIBLE TIES BETWEEN TRUMP
CAMPAIGN MEMBERS AND RUSSIAN
AGENTS SEEKING TO INFLUENCE THE
2016 ELECTION.
TODAY, THE RANKING DEMOCRAT ON
THE HOUSE INTELLIGENCE
COMMITTEE, ADAM SCHIFF, AGAIN
CRITICIZED THE COMMITTEE'S
CHAIRMAN, REPUBLICAN DEVIN
NUNES, FOR REVEALING INFORMATION
TO THE WHITE HOUSE BEFORE
DISCLOSING IT TO FELLOW
COMMITTEE MEMBERS, AND FOR
CANCELING FURTHER HEARINGS WITH
INTELLIGENCE OFFICIALS THIS
WEEK.
>> I THINK THE CHAIRMAN HAS TO
MAKE A DECISION, WHETHER TO ACT
AS A SURROGATE OF THE WHITE
HOUSE, AS HE DID DURING THE
CAMPAIGN AND THE TRANSITION, OR
TO LEAD AN INDEPENDENT AND
CREDIBLE INVESTIGATION.
I HOPE HE CHOOSES THE LATTER.
>> Sreenivasan: RUSSIA SAW THE
BIGGEST ANTI-GOVERNMENT PROTESTS
IN FIVE YEARS, AND POLICE MADE
HUNDREDS OF ARRESTS.
THE LARGEST TURNOUT WAS IN
MOSCOW, WHERE AN ESTIMATED TEN-
THOUSAND PEOPLE RALLIED AGAINST
PRIME MINISTER DMITRY MEDVEDEV,
ACCUSING HIM OF CORRUPTION AND
DEMANDING HIS RESIGNATION.
AMONG THOSE ARRESTED IN MOSCOW
WAS ALEXEI NAVALNY, THE MAIN
LEADER OF RUSSIAN OPPOSITION TO
PRESIDENT VLADIMIR PUTIN.
PROTESTERS CROWDED AROUND THE
POLICE VAN CARRYING NAVALNY BUT
FAILED TO PREVENT IT FROM
LEAVING.
NAVALNY, WHO WANTS TO RUN
AGAINST PUTIN IN NEXT YEAR'S
ELECTION, HEADS THE FOUNDATION
FOR FIGHTING CORRUPTION, WHICH
ACCUSES MEDVEDEV OF AMASSING A
HUGE FORTUNE.
IN A CONTROVERSIAL VOTE, CHINA-
BACKED CARRIE LAM WAS ELECTED AS
HONG KONG'S NEW LEADER TODAY AND
WILL BECOME HONG KONG'S FIRST
FEMALE CHIEF EXECUTIVE ON JULY
FIRST, DEFEATING A MORE POPULAR
OPPONENT.
SHE WASN'T CHOSEN BY THE GENERAL
ELECTORATE BUT BY A 1,200 MEMBER
COMMITTEE DOMINATED BY PRO-
CHINESE OFFICIALS AND POLITICAL
FIGURES.
POLICE AND PRO-DEMOCRACY
PROTESTERS CLASHED.
THE DEMONSTRATORS ACCUSE CHINA
OF MEDDLING IN THE VOTE PROCESS
AND CALLED THE OUTCOME A "FAKE
ELECTION."
IN MOSUL IRAQ, THERE ARE
CONFLICTING REPORTS TODAY ABOUT
RECENT AIR-STRIKES THAT ARE
ALLEGED TO HAVE KILLED MORE THAN
100 CIVILIANS.
THE U.S.-LED COALITION
ACKNOWLEDGED YESTERDAY THAT IT
CARRIED OUT STRIKES IN THE PART
OF WEST MOSUL WHERE DOZENS OF
BODIES WERE PULLED FROM THE
RUBBLE AND SAID THERE IS AN
INVESTIGATION UNDERWAY.
BUT IRAQ TODAY RAISED DOUBTS THE
DEATHS WERE CAUSED BY AIR
STRIKES, PUTTING THE BLAME
INSTEAD ON ISLAMIC STATE
EXPLOSIVE DEVICES.
U.S.-BACKED IRAQI FORCES
PUMMELED ISIS MILITANTS IN WEST
MOSUL TODAY DESPITE REPORTS THEY
HAD PAUSED THEIR OFFENSIVE TO
INVESTIGATE THE CIVILIAN DEATHS.
IN SYRIA, ISLAMIC STATE
MILITANTS OCCUPYING RAQQA, THE
CAPITAL OF THEIR SELF-DECLARED
CALIPHATE, TOLD RESIDENTS TO
EVACUATE THE BESIEGED CITY,
CITING IMMINENT DANGER OF
FLOODING.
ISIS SAYS THE TABQA DAM--
SYRIA'S LARGEST-- HAS BEEN
WEAKENED BY U.S. AIR STRIKES AND
MAY COLLAPSE.
THIS CLAIM HAS NOT BEEN
INDEPENDENTLY CONFIRMED.
THEY SAY THE WATER LEVEL BEHIND
THE DAM ON THE EUPHRATES RIVER
25 MILES WEST OF RAQQA IS
RISING.
U.S.-BACKED REBELS ARE BATTLING
TO REGAIN CONTROL OF THE DAM
FROM ISIS FORCES.
>>OKLAHOMA HAS THE HIGHEST RATE
OF FEMALE INCARCERATION IN THE
COUNTRY, BUT VOTERS AND
READ MORE AT pbs.org/newshour.
>> Sreenivasan: LAST WEEK THE
SENATE VOTED TO OVERTURN
INTERNET PRIVACY RULES THAT WERE
DESIGNED TO PREVENT INTERNET
PROVIDERS LIKE COMCAST, VERIZON
AND AT&T FROM SHARING YOUR
BROWSING DATA, HISTORY,
FINANCIAL, HEALTH, COMMUNICATION
AND LOCATION INFORMATION WITHOUT
YOUR EXPLICIT PERMISSION.
PROVIDERS ARE LOOKING TO SELL
THAT DATA TO ADVERTISERS.
THE HOUSE HAS YET TO WEIGH IN,
BUT CONSUMER GROUPS OPPOSE THE
MOVE CITING PRIVACY CONCERNS.
FOR SOME INSIGHT I AM JOINED NOW
BY "RECODE" REPORTER TONY ROMM
WHO HAS BEEN FOLLOWING THE
STORY.
FIRST THANKS FOR JOINING US AND
SO THE SENATE'S PASSED IT, THAT
MEANS THE HOUSE IS GOING TO
CONSIDER IT NEXT.
I KIND OF GAVE A ROUGH
EXPLANATION BUT DO US A FAVOR
AND WHAT ARE THESE RULES?
WHAT'S AT STAKE?
>> SURE THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
THESE PRIVACY RULES ARE AS
GOOD AS DEAD.
REWIND THE CLOCK TO SEE WHERE WE
GOT TO WHERE WE ARE TODAY.
FCC APPOINTEE PROVIDERS LIKE
COMCAST AND VERIZON AND AT&T TO
ASK YOUR PERMISSION TO ASK
CUSTOMERS PERMISSION BEFORE THEY
SHARE THE PERSONAL INFORMATION
WITH THIRD PARTIES, ADVERTISERS
INCLUDED.
DEMOCRATS AT THE TIME FOUND THAT
INTERNET PROVIDERS HAD TOO GREAT
A LOOK INTO YOUR PRIVATE LIFE
AND COULD DO MYRIAD THINGS WITH
THAT FORECAST POSSIBLY AGAINST
YOUR WILL.
BUT REPUBLICANS DIDN'T LIKE IT,
THEY VOTED AGAINST THOSE RULES,
FELT THEM BURDENSOME, THEY FELT
THE FCC WAS REACHING FAR BEYOND
ITS MANDATE UNDER LAW.
REPUBLICANS VOTED 50 TO 48,
LARGELY ALONG PARTY LINES THE
GUT THOSE RULES.
THE HOUSE IS EXPECTED TO VOTE
THIS WEEK AND YOU CAN PRETTY
MUCH CONSIDER THEY WILL VOTE THE
SAME SENDING THIS TOOT TRASH
HEAP.
H THESE RULES WERE DESIGNED, ONE
OF THE CONCERNS THE INDUSTRY HAS
THEY PUSH BACK, IT'S NOT FAIR
FOR ME COMCAST VERIZON AND AT&T,
NOT TO DO WHAT INTERNET
PROVIDERS ALREADY DO.
>> THEY MADE THAT WITH THE VERY
EXPENSIVE LOBBYING CAMPAIGN,
FEELING THEY WERE BEING
SUBJECTED TO STRONGER RULES THAN
GOOGLE OR FACEBOOK OR MICROSOFT.
WHAT HAVE YOU.
LOOK AT YOU AND YOUR PERSONAL
INFORMATION THAN THESE TECH
COMPANIES, IF YOU DON'T LIKE
GOOGLE YOU CAN USE BING BUT IF
COMCAST IS YOUR INTERNET
PROVIDER AND THEY ARE ABLE TO
SEE THE TOTALITY OF YOUR
BROWSING HISTORY, THEY CAN SELL
THAT TO ADVERTISERS.
WHETHER IT WAS THE ACLU OR FOLKS
ON CAPITOL HILL, THEY SAID IT
WAS TOO MUCH, TIME FOR PRIVACY
RULES.
UNFORTUNATELY THESE RULES AREN'T
STAYING ON THE BOOKS.
>> I BROWS ON THE INTERNET FOR A
VACATION AND THEN ALL OF A
SUDDEN I GET ADVERTISEMENTS FOR
LUGGAGE OR THE YEAR AND A HALF.
WHAT ARE OTHER INFORMATION OTHER
THAN THE LUGGAGE EXAMPLE?
>> TO PAY FOR THE SERVICES THAT
MOST CUSTOMERS DON'T WANT TO PAY
FOR.
THEY DON'T WANT TO PAY FOR A
SERVICE LIKE FACEBOOK OR
TWITTER, NOT THAT THOSE
COMPANIES ARE LOOKING TO CHARGE
YOU BUT THE REASON SO MUCH OF
THE INTERNET IS FREE, BECAUSE
YOU ARE PAYING FOR IT IN A
DIFFERENT WAY IN FORM OF YOUR
PERSONAL INFORMATION.
WE ARE AT THE BEGINNING OF THIS.
WIRELESS COMPANIES ARE LOOKING
FOR NEW AND DIFFERENT WAYS TO
ADVERTISE AND MONETIZE.
FEST THAT'S WHY VERIZON
PURCHASED YAHOO, THE DEAL THAT
IS IN A BIT OF TROUBLE BECAUSE
OF THE CYBER ATTACKS ON YAHOO,
BUT THEY WOULD LIKE TO GET MORE
INFORMATION FROM YOU AND BEGIN
TO SERVE YOU MORE AND DIFFERENT
KINDS OF ADVERTISING WHETHER
IT'S RELEVANT OR BASED ON OTHER
INFORMATION ENTIRELY.
>> TONY ROMM, THANK YOU FOR
BEING HERE.
>> THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME.
>> Sreenivasan: BRITISH PRIME
MINISTER THERESA MAY SAYS THIS
WEEK SHE WILL FORMALLY BEGAN THE
PROCESS OF WITHDRAWING THE
UNITED KINGDOM FROM THE 28-
NATION EUROPEAN UNION.
THE INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND
IS AMONG THE GROUPS WHO HAVE
WARNED THAT LEAVING THE E.U.'S
SINGLE MARKET COULD HAVE DIRE
CONSEQUENCES FOR THE U.K.
ECONOMY.
BUT THE FALLOUT IS ALREADY
REVERBERATING BEYOND BRITAIN'S
BORDERS, NEXT DOOR IN THE
REPUBLIC OF IRELAND.
IN TONIGHT'S SIGNATURE
SEGMENT, NEWSHOUR WEEKEND
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT PATRICIA
SABGA REPORTS ON HOW BUSINESSES
IN IRELAND THERE ARE BRACING FOR
BREXIT.
>> Reporter: FOR FOUR
GENERATIONS, MICHAEL GUINAN'S
FAMILY HAS MADE A LIVING FROM
THIS MODEST DAIRY AND BEEF FARM
IN THE IRISH MIDLANDS.
>> THIS IS A FAMILY FARM.
AND MY SON IS HERE WITH ME NOW
FULL TIME.
AND IT'S BECOMING INCREASINGLY
DIFFICULT TO GET A LIVING FOR
TWO FAMILIES ON THE FARM.
>> Reporter: DIFFICULT THANKS TO
UNCERTAINTY SURROUNDING THE
FUTURE TRADING RELATIONSHIP
BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF IRELAND
AND THE UNITED KINGDOM.
>> NOBODY SAW BREXIT COMING.
WE TALKED ABOUT IT.
WE SAT BACK AND SAID, "NAH, IT
CAN'T HAPPEN."
BUT IT HAS HAPPENED.
>> Reporter: THE UNITED KINGDOM-
- ENGLAND, SCOTLAND, WALES, AND
NORTHERN IRELAND-- IS THE
REPUBLIC OF IRELAND'S BIGGEST
TRADING PARTNER.
AROUND $1.3-BILLION WORTH OF
GOODS AND SERVICES CRISS-CROSS
THE BORDER EVERY WEEK.
BUT THOSE COMMERCIAL TIES COULD
BE FRAYED BY BREXIT.
THIS IS THE BORDER BETWEEN
NORTHERN IRELAND AND THE
REPUBLIC OF IRELAND.
RIGHT NOW THERE ARE NO BORDER
CONTROLS ON GOODS AND SERVICES
MOVING BETWEEN THE TWO
COUNTRIES, BECAUSE THEY'RE BOTH
MEMBERS OF THE EUROPEAN UNION.
BUT WHEN BRITAIN PULLS OUT OF
THE E.U., IT COULD TRIGGER
TARIFFS ON ANGLO-IRISH TRADE.
AND WHEN TRADE BARRIERS GO UP,
SO DOES THE COST OF DOING
BUSINESS.
JOHN COMER IS PRESIDENT OF THE
IRISH CREAMERY MILK SUPPLIERS
ASSOCIATION.
>> I CAN'T SEE ANY UPSIDES TO
THE IMPENDING BREXIT.
>> Reporter: WHAT CONCERNS HIM
MOST ARE POTENTIAL TARIFFS.
IF BRITAIN AND THE EUROPEAN
UNION FAIL TO REACH A FREE TRADE
DEAL BEFORE BREXIT IS COMPLETE,
THE RELATIONSHIP WOULD REVERT TO
RULES LAID DOWN BY THE WORLD
TRADE ORGANIZATION.
THAT COULD IMPOSE TARIFFS AS
HIGH AS 40% ON IRISH DAIRY
PRODUCTS SOLD TO BRITAIN.
>> IF WE DON'T GET MARKETS THAT
ARE FREE MARKETS IN TERMS OF NO
TARIFFS AND NO QUOTAS AND NO
IMPEDIMENTS, I DON'T THINK
THAT'LL BE SUSTAINABLE, AND I
DON'T THINK WE'D BE RESILIENT
ENOUGH TO WITHSTAND THAT
DRAMATIC IMPACT.
>> Reporter: BRITAIN'S EXIT FROM
THE E.U. IS NOT EXPECTED TO BE
COMPLETED FOR AT LEAST TWO
YEARS, BUT THE FUTURE IS ALREADY
WEIGHING ON IRISH FARMERS,
THANKS TO BRITAIN'S CURRENCY,
THE POUND, LOSING AROUND 12% OF
ITS VALUE AGAINST THE EURO SINCE
THE BREXIT REFERENDUM.
>> THAT IMMEDIATELY AFFECTED OUR
COMPETITIVENESS IN THE UK
MARKET.
IT MADE IT MORE DIFFICULT TO
PUSH IRISH PRODUCE INTO THE UK
MARKET AT A DECENT PRICE.
>> Reporter: WHEN FARMERS'
LIVELIHOODS TAKE A HIT, IT CAN
NEGATIVELY IMPACT RURAL
MERCHANTS, WHEN BILLS FOR THINGS
LIKE LIVESTOCK FEED AND FARMING
EQUIPMENT BOUGHT ON CREDIT GO
UNPAID.
>> THE MERCHANTS ARE NOW FINDING
IT HARD TO RECOUP THAT MONEY.
AS A RESULT, THAT'LL IMPACT ON
WHO THEY CAN EMPLOY AND PAY.
SO IT'LL HAVE A KNOCK ON EFFECT
THERE.
>> Reporter: BREXIT UNCERTAINTY
IS NOT JUST A PROBLEM FOR IRISH
AGRICULTURE.
IT'S ALSO AFFECTING SMALL
BUSINESSES IN CITIES LIKE
DUBLIN, IRELAND'S CAPITAL.
IAN MARTIN'S COMPANY SELLS FIRST
AID AND HYGIENE PRODUCTS
IMPORTED FROM THE UK.
HE TOLD US HIS CUSTOMERS ARE
CONCERNED BREXIT COULD RAISE HIS
PRICES.
>> THEY KNOW, AT THE MOMENT, THE
GOODS ARE COMING FROM THE UK.
BUT IF WE HAVE VARIOUS TARIFFS
COMING INTO EUROPE FROM THE UK,
IT'S GOING TO PUT MY COST OF MY
GOODS UP.
THE GOODS ARE GOING TO HAVE TO
COME FROM FRANCE OR GERMANY,
WHICH IS GOING TO PUT ADDITIONAL
COSTS ON IT, BECAUSE IT'S GOING
TO TRAVEL FURTHER TO COME INTO
THE IRISH MARKETPLACE.
>> Reporter: MARTIN'S LACK OF
CLARITY OVER FUTURE SALES HAS
ALREADY LED HIM TO DELAY HIRING
REPLACEMENTS FOR EMPLOYEES
WHO'VE LEFT.
>> WE HAD A MEMBER OF STAFF LEFT
US THERE LAST OCTOBER.
AND WE SAID, "LOOK, WILL WE
RECRUIT A REPLACEMENT FOR HIM,
KNOWING WHAT'S ACTUALLY
HAPPENING IN THE MARKETPLACE, OR
WILL WE JUST CONSOLIDATE AND
KEEP THE DECKS GOING AS THEY
ARE, KNOWING THAT THERE'S A FEW
BIG SHOCKS GOING TO HIT THE
MARKETPLACE?"
>> Reporter: IRELAND'S MINISTER
OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND TRADE,
CHARLIE FLANNIGAN, PLAYS A
LEADING ROLE IN THE COUNTRY'S
BREXIT NEGOTIATIONS.
>> THE OBJECT OF THE EXERCISE
NOW MUST BE TO ENSURE THAT THE
VERY CLOSE AND POSITIVE
RELATIONS BETWEEN IRELAND AND
BRITAIN CONTINUES, ACKNOWLEDGING
OF COURSE THAT LEAVING THE
SINGLE MARKET, BRITAIN HAS GOT
TO SUFFER SOME DETRIMENT.
AND WE WANT TO ENSURE THAT THAT
DETRIMENT TO THE UK IS NOT GOING
TO HAVE CONSEQUENTIAL LOSS AND
DAMAGE FOR US HERE IN IRELAND.
>> Reporter: WHICH PLACES THE
ISSUE THE BORDER DIVIDING THE
TWO COUNTRIES FRONT AND CENTER.
>> WE ARE NOW FACED WITH A
SITUATION WHERE WE WILL HAVE AN
E.U. FRONTIER RIGHT ACROSS THE
ISLAND OF IRELAND FROM EAST TO
WEST, A DISTANCE OF ALMOST 500
KILOMETERS, AND WE NEED TO
ENSURE THAT IN THE CONTEXT OF
THE NEW ARRANGEMENT BETWEEN THE
UK AND THE EUROPEAN UNION, THAT
INVISIBLE BORDER IS MAINTAINED
IN SO FAR AS IT CAN.
>> Reporter: THE 300 MILE BORDER
DIVIDING THE REPUBLIC OF IRELAND
AND NORTHERN IRELAND IS SEAMLESS
NOW, BUT IT WAS HEAVILY
FORTIFIED DURING THE TROUBLES,
THE 30-YEAR SECTARIAN CONFLICT
BETWEEN NORTHERN IRELAND'S
CATHOLIC NATIONALISTS AND
PROTESTANT UNIONISTS THAT
FORMALLY ENDED WITH 1998 GOOD
FRIDAY AGREEMENT.
BUT BREXIT IS NOW POLARIZING
NORTHERN IRISH POLITICS ALONG
SECTARIAN LINES.
CATHOLIC NATIONALISTS ARE
CALLING FOR NORTHERN IRELAND TO
BE GRANTED A SPECIAL STATUS TO
STAY IN THE E.U., WHICH WOULD
EFFECTIVELY PUSH THE POST-BREXIT
BORDER OUT TO THE REST OF THE
UK.
PROTESTANT UNIONISTS IN NORTHERN
IRELAND AND THE BRITISH
GOVERNMENT REJECT THAT IDEA.
BUT IRELAND'S FOREIGN AFFAIRS
MINISTER CHARLIE FLANNIGAN SAYS
IT'S SUPPORTED BY THE GOOD
FRIDAY AGREEMENT.
>> Reporter: YOU'VE GOT THE
RESULTS OF A DEMOCRATIC
REFERENDUM THAT THE BRITISH
GOVERNMENT HAS TO PUT THROUGH,
BUT WE ALSO HAVE THE GOOD FRIDAY
AGREEMENT.
WHICH ONE OF THOSE TAKES
PRECEDENT?
>> I THINK IT'S FAIR TO SAY THAT
WHILE NOT EXPLICIT IN THE GOOD
FRIDAY AGREEMENT, CERTAINLY
IMPLIED RIGHT THE WAY THROUGH IT
WAS A GREATER LEVEL OF
RELATIONSHIP NORTH AND SOUTH.
AND THE GOOD FRIDAY AGREEMENT
IMPLIES THAT RELATIONS NORTH AND
SOUTH WILL CONTINUE TO GROW AND
FOSTER IN HARMONY.
>> Reporter: SO IT SOUNDS LIKE
YOU'RE SAYING THAT THE GOOD
FRIDAY AGREEMENT IMPLIES A
SPECIAL STATUS--
>> YES.
>> Reporter: TO NORTHERN IRELAND
WITHIN THE CONTEXT OF BREXIT?
>> YES.
>> Reporter: EITHER WAY, NEITHER
IRELAND NOR THE U.K. ALONE WILL
DECIDE THE FUTURE OF THEIR
BORDER.
>> IRELAND IS ONLY ONE OF 27
EUROPEAN COUNTRIES THAT'S GOING
TO MAKE THAT DECISION ON WHAT
THAT LOOKS LIKE.
>> Reporter: EDGAR MORGENROTH,
AN ASSOCIATE RESEARCH PROFESSOR
AT DUBLIN'S ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL
RESEARCH INSTITUTE, SAYS BORDER
CONTROLS ARE A REAL POSSIBILITY.
>> IF WHAT'S PROPOSED BY THE UK,
AND THEIR ACTIONS ARE SUCH THAT
IT'S NOT IN EUROPE'S INTERESTS,
THEN WE ARE LIKELY TO SEE PROPER
BORDER CONTROLS--
>> Reporter: WHICH COULD ENTAIL
PHYSICAL BARRIERS TO CHECK THE
MOVEMENT OF PEOPLE AND GOODS.
THAT COULD INVITE A RE-EMERGENCE
OF SMUGGLING IN BLACK MARKET
ITEMS, INCLUDING LIVESTOCK,
WHICH WAS RIFE DURING THE
TROUBLES.
THAT CONCERNS JOHN COMER, WHO
REPRESENTS DAIRY FARMERS.
>> IF THERE'S ILLEGAL OR ILLICIT
TRANSACTIONS OF CATTLE ACROSS
BORDERS, IT WILL BE VERY, VERY
COMPLICATED.
WE HAVE MANY MEMBERS THAT HAVE
LANDS THAT STRADDLE BOTH SIDES
OF THE BORDER.
>> Reporter: THE POTENTIAL FOR
ECONOMIC DISRUPTIONS PROMPTED
CREDIT RATING AGENCY MOODY'S TO
WARN EARLIER THIS MONTH THAT OF
ALL EUROPEAN COUNTRIES, IRELAND
IS THE MOST EXPOSED TO BREXIT
RISK.
BUT THERE COULD BE A SILVER
LINING FOR DUBLIN.
IT'S ALREADY MARKETING ITSELF AS
A PRIME LANDING SPOT FOR
LUCRATIVE LONDON-BASED FINANCIAL
SERVICES THAT MAY WANT TO
RELOCATE TO ANOTHER ENGLISH-
SPEAKING E.U. CITY WITH A LEGAL
SYSTEM SIMILAR TO BRITAIN'S.
>> I BELIEVE DUBLIN OFFERS
OPPORTUNITY IN TERMS OF A
SKILLED WORKFORCE, IN TERMS OF A
REALLY NICE PLACE IN WHICH TO
SET UP BUSINESS AND TRADE.
>> Reporter: BUT ECONOMIST EDGAR
MORGENROTH SAYS EVEN FINANCIAL
SERVICES JOBS AND OTHER F.D.I.--
FOREIGN DIRECT INVESTMENT-- ARE
UNLIKELY TO FULLY OFFSET THE
BLOW BREXIT COULD DELIVER TO
IRELAND'S ECONOMY
>> WE ARE GOING TO PICK UP A
REASONABLE SLICE OF WHATEVER
MIGHT RELOCATE.
WILL THAT COUNTERBALANCE THE
NEGATIVE EFFECTS THAT COME
THROUGH TRADE?
WELL, OUR ESTIMATES SUGGEST THAT
IT WON'T, BECAUSE WE WILL ONLY
PICK UP SOME F.D.I., WHEREAS
WE'RE GOING TO LOSE QUITE A
SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNT THROUGH THE
TRADE IMPACTS WITH THE UK.
>> Reporter: SO WHILE DUBLIN
COULD SEE A BREXIT BOON, BACK IN
THE IRISH MIDLANDS, FARMER
MICHAEL GUINAN IS BRACING FOR
HARD TIMES.
>> IT'S THE SMALL PEOPLE THAT
SUFFER.
THE BIGGER PEOPLE WILL PROBABLY
ALWAYS FIND A WAY AROUND THINGS.
BUT IT'S THE SMALLER PRODUCER
AND THE SMALL FARMER THAT'S
GOING TO BE HARDEST HIT IN THIS.
>> Sreenivasan: ON FRIDAY,
VENEZUELAN PRESIDENT NICOLAS
MADURO TOOK TO STATE-RUN
TELEVISION TO SAY THAT HE HAD
ASKED THE UNITED NATIONS FOR
HELP IN ADDRESSING HIS COUNTRY'S
SHORTAGES OF MEDICINE AND OTHER
GOODS.
MADURO BLAMED "THE ECONOMIC WAR
AND THE FALL IN OIL PRICES" FOR
THE CURRENT CRISIS THAT HAS LEFT
THE COUNTRY'S HOSPITALS WITH
LESS THAN 5% OF THE MEDICINE
REQUIRED TO TREAT PATIENTS.
FOR MORE ON JUST HOW VENEZUELA
REACHED THIS POINT I AM JOINED
VIA SKYPE FROM CARACAS, BY
REUTERS REPORTER BRIAN
ELLSWORTH.
WE'VE COVERED THIS COLLAPSING
STATE IN SEVERAL CONVERSATIONS
ON THIS PROGRAM, BUT THIS IS AN
INTERESTING DEVELOPMENT.
HOW BAD IS THE LACK OF MEDICAL
SUPPLIES?
I'VE HEARD THAT THERE HAVE BEEN
PROTESTS ON THE STREETS ABOUT
THIS.
>> YES, THE SITUATION IS QUITE
SEVERE.
THE PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRY
ESTIMATES THAT YOU HAVE PERHAPS
ONE IN SIX CHANCE OF FINDING A
GIVEN MEDICATION OFTEN THE
SHELF, MANY MEDICINES ARE NOT
AVAILABLE.
A SIMPLE ANTI-INFLAMMATORY OR
PARK IN SONGS MEDICATION OR
HYPERTENSION MEDICATION.
THE RESULT IS THAT PEOPLE SIMPLY
GO WITHOUT MEDICATION THEY NEED,
AND YOU GO ON SOCIAL MEDIA AND
YOU'LL SEE THERE'S A CONSTANT
FLOOD OF REQUESTS FROM PEOPLE
WHO SAY, CAN YOU HELP ME GET
THIS MEDICATION FOR THIS PERSON.
THERE ARE GROUPS ALL OVER THE
WORLD WHO HAVE MADE UP OF
VENEZUELANS, THE SITUATION IS
SEVERE ANY OF THAT WITHOUT A
MAJOR CHANGE IN THE WAY THE
ECONOMY FUNCTIONS IT'S PROBABLY
GOING TO CONTINUE TO BE A
PROBLEM.
>> Sreenivasan: IS THERE NOW A
BLACK MARKET FOR MEDICATIONS
WHEN THERE'S SUCH AN INCREDIBLE
SHORTAGE OF THINGS OR HAS THE
PRICE JUST SKYROCKETED?
>> IN SOME INSTANCES, THE PRICE
HAS SKYROCKETED.
OTHERS ARE OUT OF THE REACH OF
WHAT PEOPLE CAN AFFORD, THERE IS
SORT OF TRADE AND BARTER
MEDICATION.
THE PROBLEM IS THERE ISN'T
ENOUGH MEDICATION I WOULD SAY TO
SUSTAIN A BLACK MARKET THE WAY
YOU WOULD HAVE A BLACK MARKET
FOR FOREIGN EXCHANGE OR ANY
OTHER NUMBER OF PRODUCTS.
>> Sreenivasan: THIS IS IN THE
CONTEXT OF INFLATION RISING IN
TRIPLE DIGIT NUMBERS THIS YEAR?
>> YES.
THE GOVERNMENT DOESN'T PUBLISH
INFLATION NUMBERS ANYMORE.
WE ESTIMATE IT'S BETWEEN 400 AND
800% THIS YEAR.
PEOPLE BEING ABLE TO FIND IT AT
A PRICE THEY CAN AFFORD IS
GETTING LESS AND LESS LIKELY.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT IS THE
REACTION FROM THE INTERNATIONAL
COMMUNITY?
>> PEOPLE TALK A LOT ABOUT THIS.
THE INITIAL REACTION AT LEAST OF
THE GOVERNMENT IS THERE IS MONTH
CRISIS HERE.
SO THEY HAVE, WHILE REALLY UNTIL
FRIDAY THIN DISLIKED THE IDEA OF
PEOPLE TALKING ABOUT
HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE BECAUSE
THEY SAY THERE IS NOT A NEED FOR
THAT.
MADURO IS TALKING ABOUT A
CONSULTATION WITH THE UNITED
NATIONS, THE PROPOSAL WAS A
BRIEF COMMENT ON FRIDAY AND IT
IS NOT IMMEDIATELY EVIDENT WHAT
HE ACTUALLY HAS IN MIND AND WHAT
THE UNITED NATIONS WOULD BE ABLE
TO DO IT.
>> Sreenivasan: BRIAN
ELLSWORTH, JOINING US FROM
CARACAS VIA SKYPE THANK YOU SO
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: POLICE IN
CINCINNATI, OHIO ARE
INVESTIGATING A NIGHTCLUB
SHOOTING EARLY THIS MORNING THAT
LEFT ONE PERSON DEAD AND MORE
THAN A DOZEN INJURED.
AUTHORITIES BELIEVE AT LEAST TWO
PEOPLE FIRED SHOTS INSIDE THE
CROWDED CAMEO CLUB FOLLOWING A
DISPUTE AMONG SEVERAL MEN.
POLICE SAY A 27-YEAR-OLD MAN WAS
KILLED AND 15 OTHERS WERE
WOUNDED.
TWO OF THEM ARE IN CRITICAL
CONDITION.
THEY ALSO SAY THE INCIDENT IS
NOT TERRORISM RELATED AND THAT
SHOOTINGS HAVE OCCURRED INSIDE
THE CLUB IN THE PAST.
AUTHORITIES ARE STILL TRYING TO
IDENTIFY THE SHOOTERS.
SCUFFLES BROKE OUT BETWEEN
PROTESTERS AND COUNTER-
PROTESTERS YESTERDAY AT RALLIES
ACROSS THE COUNTRY IN SUPPORT OF
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP.
IN HUNTINGTON BEACH, CALIFORNIA,
2,000 PRO-TRUMP DEMONSTRATORS
GATHERED, POLICE SAY A FIST
FIGHT BROKE OUT AFTER A COUNTER-
PROTESTER DOUSED AN ORGANIZER
WITH PEPPER SPRAY.
SIX PEOPLE WERE ARRESTED.
POLICE IN PHILADELPHIA CUT A
PRO-TRUMP RALLY SHORT CITING
SAFETY REASONS AS OPPOSING
MARCHERS SQUARED OFF AT
INDEPENDENCE MALL.
IRAN IMPOSED SANCTIONS TODAY ON
15 AMERICAN COMPANIES IT CLAIMS,
FLAGRANTLY VIOLATE HUMAN
RIGHTS" AND SUPPORT ISRAEL'S,"
TERRORISM" AGAINST THE
PALESTINIANS.
AN IRANIAN FOREIGN MINISTRY
STATEMENT CALLED THE MOVE
BARRING ANY DEALS WITH IRANIAN
COMPANIES A "RECIPROCAL ACT"
FOLLOWING U.S. SANCTIONS IMPOSED
ON IRAN FOLLOWING ITS MISSILE
TEST LAST MONTH.
THE IMPACT OF THE SANCTIONS MAY
BE LIMITED, AS IT IS UNCLEAR IF
ANY OF AMERICAN COMPANIES LIKE
I.T.T., UNITED TECHNOLOGIES AND
RAYTHEON, HAVE ANY BUSINESS WITH
IRAN.
THE RULING HAMAS AUTHORITIES
SHUT DOWN GAZA'S MAIN BORDER
CROSSING WITH ISRAEL TODAY
FOLLOWING THE FRIDAY KILLING OF
A SENIOR LEADER, MAZEN FAQHA.
THE EREZ CROSSING IS SHUT DOWN
IN BOTH DIRECTIONS INDEFINITELY,
AND ALSO APPLIES TO JOURNALISTS,
AID WORKERS AND PATIENTS TRYING
TO ENTER ISRAEL FOR MEDICAL
HELP.
THOUSANDS IN GAZA YESTERDAY
MOURNED THE DEATH.
HAMAS ACCUSED ISRAEL OF,
"ASSASSINATING" FAQHA; A FORMER
PRISONER FREED BY ISRAEL IN
2011.
>> FINALLY, PRESIDENT TRUMP
PLANS TO SIGN ANOTHER EXECUTIVE
ORDER ON TUESDAY CANCELLING OUT
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION'S CLEAN
POWER PLAN.
EPA CHIEF SCOTT PRUITT SAID MR.
TRUMP WILL UNDO A RULE THAT
RESTRICTS GREENHOUSE GAS
EMISSIONS AT COAL FIRED POWER
PLANTS.
THE RULE HAS BEEN HELD UP IN THE
COURTS SINCE LAST YEAR.
A REMINDER YOU CAN WATCH
MY EXTENDED INTERVIEW ABOUT
INTERNET PRIVACY RULES WITH TONY
ROMM AT FACEBOOK.COM/NewsHOUR.
TOMORROW ON NewsHOUR CONTINUING
COVERAGE FOLLOWING THE DEFEAT OF
THE BILL TO REPLACE THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT AND ITS
IMPACT ON THE REPUBLICAN AGENDA.
THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS NewsHOUR, I'M HARI
SREENIVASAN, THANKS FOR
WATCHING.